To upgrade your MODx system, you'll need to follow pretty much the same steps as in the Setup Guide, with one exception. You must not delete or overwrite the config.inc.php file. So, to upgrade the MODx version, do the following:

If you have modified snippets or plugins for your needs, either rename them or do not forget to uncheck the boxes during the installation wizard. The default installation wizard will overwrite all native snippets or plugins (Ditto, etc.) to the latest versions. (In general, it's a good practice to rename a snippet or plugin immediately after making changes to it) Back up everything you can. Use ftp to download all MODx files from your server and use phpMyAdmin (or another database management program) to make a "dump" of your entire database. Check again if everything has a backup! Download and unzip the latest version of MODx. Upload the contents of the unzipped archive to your server. Overwrite any old files. The MODx distribution should not contain the config.inc.php file in the /manager/includes/ folder, so it will not be overwritten. Open a browser and go to your server (where you downloaded the distribution kit) in the /install directory. Then follow the on-screen instructions. Immediately after the license agreement, make sure that the "Update" option is selected. If you deleted all of your old files before upgrading, you'll probably need to set permissions again via CHMOD as described in the Setup Guide. The installation wizard will remind you to do so if necessary. Do not forget to uncheck those add-ons (snippets, plugins) to which you have made changes and have not renamed (see point 1). When you see the "Delete /install folder" option, make sure it is enabled. (Deleting this folder will prevent malicious users from running the update/installation script) After completing the installation wizard, use ftp to verify that the /install folder does not exist. If it is not, delete it manually. Finally, change the permissions of the config.inc.php file in the /manager/includes folder to read-only. Recommended installation via CHMOD -0444 (r--r--r--) - this will prevent your site from a possible attack. 

Note: On servers that are running IIS, you do not need to do this. Once you've verified that everything works correctly, rename any snippets or plugins you modified again if necessary. THE MODx update is complete! Source: MODx - Wikibooks
